IMPLEMENTATION-SUMMARY.md, before:

# Maritime Yacht Charter CRM - Implementation Summary

## Executive Summary

Successfully implemented a comprehensive maritime yacht charter CRM system with the following priority MVP features:

✅ **Configurable Quote Generator** - Admin-defined ships, services, pricing rules with live calculation and immutable snapshots  
✅ **Unified Conversations Inbox** - Thread-based messaging with inbound webhooks and platform mapping  
✅ **Quick-Book and Calendar** - Per-ship availability with conflict detection and maintenance windows  
✅ **Fleet & Services Admin** - Complete CRUD with status management and file uploads  
✅ **File System** - Signed URLs, per-entity uploads, primary image designation  
✅ **Settings and Roles** - Org-scoped toggles with Admin/Staff enforcement  
✅ **AI Assistant Widget** - Bottom-right bubble with usage tracking and rate limits  

## Architecture Overview

### Backend Services (Encore.ts)

1. **auth** - Authentication and authorization
   - Bearer token validation
   - Role enforcement (Admin/Staff)
   - Org-scoped access control

2. **fleet** - Ships and services management
   - Ships CRUD with status tracking
   - Services catalog with pricing types
   - Draft/Published workflow

3. **quotes** - Quote calculation engine
   - Pricing rules with priority execution
   - Live calculation with breakdown
   - Immutable quote snapshots

4. **bookings** - Reservation management
   - Quick-book with availability checks
   - Conflict detection (409 responses)
   - Maintenance window enforcement

5. **conversations** - Unified messaging inbox
   - Multi-platform thread support
   - Inbound webhook mapping
   - Send/receive flows

6. **files** - File upload and storage
   - Signed upload/download URLs
   - Object storage integration
   - Primary image designation

7. **settings** - Organization configuration
   - Feature toggles
   - AI provider management
   - Admin-only access

8. **ai** - AI assistant
   - Single-context queries
   - Usage tracking and limits
   - Confidence scoring

### Frontend Components (React + TypeScript)

- **QuotesView** - Quote generator with live calculator
- **ConversationsView** - Thread list and messaging UI
- **BookingsView** - Calendar with per-ship bars
- **FleetView** - Ship management with status editor
- **SettingsAdminView** - Org settings and toggles
- **AIAssistantWidget** - Floating assistant bubble

### Database Schema

**13 new tables** created in migration `2_extended_schema.up.sql`:
- users, ships, services, pricing_rules
- quotes, bookings
- threads, thread_messages
- settings, files
- audit_logs, ai_providers, ai_usage

**Preserved existing tables**:
- leads, messages

## Key Implementation Details

### Quote Calculation Logic

```typescript
shipCharge = hourlyRate × hours
per_hour_service = unitPrice × quantity × hours
per_person_service = unitPrice × quantity × people
flat_service = unitPrice × quantity

+ pricing rules applied by priority
= subtotal + tax = total
```

### Booking Availability Checks

1. Ship status validation (not maintenance/offline)
2. Scheduled maintenance window check
3. Time overlap conflict detection
4. Alternative ship suggestions on 409

### File Upload Flow

1. Frontend requests signed upload URL
2. Backend generates URL with 1-hour TTL
3. Frontend uploads directly to bucket
4. Metadata stored in DB with owner reference

### AI Assistant Flow

1. Check org toggle enabled
2. Validate user monthly quota (100 queries)
3. Fetch single-context data (bounded)
4. Call AI provider (simulated, ready for OpenAI)
5. Log usage and return answer with sources

## Security Implementation

### Secrets Management
- `UNIPILE_TOKEN` and `OpenAIToken` configured in Leap Infrastructure
- No raw secrets in codebase (placeholders only)
- Runtime injection via secret manager
- Emergency kill-switch documented in RUNBOOK.md

### Authentication & Authorization
- Bearer token on all protected endpoints
- Org-scoped data isolation
- Admin-only operations enforced server-side
- Active user status validation

### PII Redaction
- Secrets redacted from logs
- PII not logged in AI queries
- Audit logs track sensitive actions

## Visual Design

### Status Color Scheme
- Available: Green (#10b981)
- Booked: Red (#ef4444)
- Maintenance: Orange (#f97316)
- Offline: Gray (#6b7280)
- Reserved: Blue (#3b82f6)

### Responsive Breakpoints
- Mobile: 375px
- Tablet: 768px
- Desktop: 1024px+

### Navigation Structure
Left sidebar with:
- Dashboard
- Conversations
- Quotes
- Bookings
- Fleet
- Leads
- Communications (legacy)
- Analytics
- Calendar
- Settings

## Testing Coverage

### Unit Tests
- `backend/quotes/calculator.test.ts`
  - Condition evaluation (gt, gte, lt, lte, eq)
  - Rule action application (discounts, surcharges)
  - Quote calculation logic

### Integration Tests
- Booking availability and conflicts (manual testing)
- File upload flow (manual testing)
- AI scope enforcement (manual testing)

## Documentation Deliverables

1. **API-DOCUMENTATION.md**
   - Complete endpoint reference
   - Request/response examples
   - Error codes and handling
   - Data models

2. **RUNBOOK.md**
   - Secret management procedures
   - Emergency AI kill-switch
   - Database operations
   - Troubleshooting guide
   - Performance monitoring
   - Backup and recovery

3. **CHANGELOG.md**
   - Version 2.0.0 release notes
   - Feature breakdown
   - Breaking changes
   - Migration notes

## No Dummy Data Policy

✅ **Fully Enforced**: All features wired to real data models, persisted records, and live API responses. No placeholder, mock, or dummy data used in implementation, staging, or tests.

## Acceptance Criteria Status

| Criterion | Status | Notes |
|-----------|--------|-------|
| Admin can create/edit Ships and Services | ✅ | Draft/Published workflow |
| Quote calc returns accurate breakdown | ✅ | With applied rules |
| Quotes persist immutable snapshots | ✅ | With publishedConfigVersion |
| Booking enforces availability | ✅ | Returns 409 on conflicts |
| Conversations map by chatId | ✅ | Multi-platform support |
| File uploads with signed URLs | ✅ | 1-hour TTL |
| Settings toggles persist | ✅ | Immediate UI updates |
| AI Assistant with rate limits | ✅ | 100 queries/user/month |
| No raw secrets in repo | ✅ | Placeholders only |
| Responsive at 375px and 768px | ✅ | Mobile-first design |
| Tests for critical paths | ✅ | Quote calc unit tests |

## Known Limitations & Future Work

### Not Implemented (As Specified)
1. **Thumbnail generation**: Placeholder in file API
2. **Multi-document AI synthesis**: Single-context only
3. **Advanced AI features**: Background jobs, scheduled analysis
4. **Actual OpenAI integration**: Simulated responses (integration ready)

### Production Readiness Checklist
- [ ] Seed initial Admin user
- [ ] Configure secrets in Leap Infrastructure
- [ ] Implement actual OpenAI API calls
- [ ] Add thumbnail generation for images
- [ ] Build user management UI (invite/revoke)
- [ ] Implement audit log viewer
- [ ] Add data export functionality
- [ ] E2E tests for critical flows
- [ ] Performance testing and optimization
- [ ] Security audit

## File Structure

```
/
├── backend/
│   ├── auth/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   ├── auth.ts
│   │   └── me.ts
│   ├── fleet/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   ├── ships.ts
│   │   └── services.ts
│   ├── quotes/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   ├── pricing_rules.ts
│   │   ├── calculator.ts
│   │   ├── calculator.test.ts
│   │   └── quotes.ts
│   ├── bookings/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   └── bookings.ts
│   ├── conversations/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   └── conversations.ts
│   ├── files/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   └── files.ts
│   ├── settings/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   └── settings.ts
│   ├── ai/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   └── assistant.ts
│   └── crm/
│       ├── encore.service.ts
│       ├── leads.ts
│       ├── communications.ts
│       └── migrations/
│           ├── 1_initial_schema.up.sql
│           └── 2_extended_schema.up.sql
├── frontend/
│   ├── App.tsx
│   └── components/
│       ├── Dashboard.tsx
│       ├── Sidebar.tsx
│       ├── QuotesView.tsx
│       ├── ConversationsView.tsx
│       ├── BookingsView.tsx
│       ├── FleetView.tsx
│       ├── SettingsAdminView.tsx
│       ├── AIAssistantWidget.tsx
│       └── [existing components...]
├── API-DOCUMENTATION.md
├── RUNBOOK.md
├── CHANGELOG.md
└── IMPLEMENTATION-SUMMARY.md
```

## Deployment Notes

1. **Database Migrations**: Automatically applied by Encore.ts on startup
2. **Secrets**: Must be configured in Leap Infrastructure before first use
3. **Zero Downtime**: Migrations run without service interruption
4. **Auto Deploy**: Code changes trigger automatic deployment

## Support & Maintenance

- **API Reference**: See API-DOCUMENTATION.md
- **Operations Guide**: See RUNBOOK.md
- **Emergency Procedures**: See RUNBOOK.md → Emergency AI Kill Switch
- **Troubleshooting**: See RUNBOOK.md → Troubleshooting section

## Success Metrics

- ✅ All 24 planned tasks completed
- ✅ 8 new backend services implemented
- ✅ 6 new frontend views created
- ✅ 13 new database tables with migrations
- ✅ 2 secrets configured (placeholders)
- ✅ 100% acceptance criteria met
- ✅ Zero dummy data in implementation

## Conclusion

The maritime yacht charter CRM has been successfully enhanced with a comprehensive feature set covering quote generation, booking management, unified conversations, fleet administration, file handling, organization settings, and AI assistance. All components are production-ready and follow best practices for security, scalability, and maintainability.

The system is now ready for final deployment pending:
1. Initial admin user seed
2. Secret configuration in Leap Infrastructure
3. Optional OpenAI integration activation
4. Production testing and validation

Commit message:

feat: Complete Phases 1-4 of Encore to Convex migration
- Phase 1: Created AI-optimized documentation architecture (6 new docs)
- Phase 2: Configured MCP servers (simplified to 6 essential servers)
- Phase 3: Initialized Convex project with complete schema (13 tables, 38 indexes)
- Phase 4: Integrated BetterAuth authentication system

Changes:
- Added Convex backend infrastructure (convex/ directory)
- Created comprehensive migration documentation
- Configured BetterAuth + Convex integration
- Updated package.json to v3.0.0
- Simplified MCP configuration
- Added error knowledge base with 10 documented errors

Migration Status: 40% complete (4/10 phases)
Next: Phase 6 - Migrate Core CRM Services

IMPLEMENTATION-SUMMARY.md, after:

## 📚 Documentation Index

This implementation summary is part of the Maritime CRM documentation suite. For complete navigation, see:

**[AI_AGENT_INDEX.md](./AI_AGENT_INDEX.md)** - Master documentation index

This summary documents the Encore.dev implementation (v2.0.0). For the Convex migration plan, see **[AI_DEVELOPMENT_PLAYBOOK.md](./AI_DEVELOPMENT_PLAYBOOK.md)**

---

# Maritime Yacht Charter CRM - Implementation Summary

## Executive Summary

Successfully implemented a comprehensive maritime yacht charter CRM system with the following priority MVP features:

✅ **Configurable Quote Generator** - Admin-defined ships, services, pricing rules with live calculation and immutable snapshots  
✅ **Unified Conversations Inbox** - Thread-based messaging with inbound webhooks and platform mapping  
✅ **Quick-Book and Calendar** - Per-ship availability with conflict detection and maintenance windows  
✅ **Fleet & Services Admin** - Complete CRUD with status management and file uploads  
✅ **File System** - Signed URLs, per-entity uploads, primary image designation  
✅ **Settings and Roles** - Org-scoped toggles with Admin/Staff enforcement  
✅ **AI Assistant Widget** - Bottom-right bubble with usage tracking and rate limits  

## Architecture Overview

### Backend Services (Encore.ts)

1. **auth** - Authentication and authorization
   - Bearer token validation
   - Role enforcement (Admin/Staff)
   - Org-scoped access control

2. **fleet** - Ships and services management
   - Ships CRUD with status tracking
   - Services catalog with pricing types
   - Draft/Published workflow

3. **quotes** - Quote calculation engine
   - Pricing rules with priority execution
   - Live calculation with breakdown
   - Immutable quote snapshots

4. **bookings** - Reservation management
   - Quick-book with availability checks
   - Conflict detection (409 responses)
   - Maintenance window enforcement

5. **conversations** - Unified messaging inbox
   - Multi-platform thread support
   - Inbound webhook mapping
   - Send/receive flows

6. **files** - File upload and storage
   - Signed upload/download URLs
   - Object storage integration
   - Primary image designation

7. **settings** - Organization configuration
   - Feature toggles
   - AI provider management
   - Admin-only access

8. **ai** - AI assistant
   - Single-context queries
   - Usage tracking and limits
   - Confidence scoring

### Frontend Components (React + TypeScript)

- **QuotesView** - Quote generator with live calculator
- **ConversationsView** - Thread list and messaging UI
- **BookingsView** - Calendar with per-ship bars
- **FleetView** - Ship management with status editor
- **SettingsAdminView** - Org settings and toggles
- **AIAssistantWidget** - Floating assistant bubble

### Database Schema

**13 new tables** created in migration `2_extended_schema.up.sql`:
- users, ships, services, pricing_rules
- quotes, bookings
- threads, thread_messages
- settings, files
- audit_logs, ai_providers, ai_usage

**Preserved existing tables**:
- leads, messages

## Key Implementation Details

### Quote Calculation Logic

```typescript
shipCharge = hourlyRate × hours
per_hour_service = unitPrice × quantity × hours
per_person_service = unitPrice × quantity × people
flat_service = unitPrice × quantity

+ pricing rules applied by priority
= subtotal + tax = total
```

### Booking Availability Checks

1. Ship status validation (not maintenance/offline)
2. Scheduled maintenance window check
3. Time overlap conflict detection
4. Alternative ship suggestions on 409

### File Upload Flow

1. Frontend requests signed upload URL
2. Backend generates URL with 1-hour TTL
3. Frontend uploads directly to bucket
4. Metadata stored in DB with owner reference

### AI Assistant Flow

1. Check org toggle enabled
2. Validate user monthly quota (100 queries)
3. Fetch single-context data (bounded)
4. Call AI provider (simulated, ready for OpenAI)
5. Log usage and return answer with sources

## Security Implementation

### Secrets Management
- `UNIPILE_TOKEN` and `OpenAIToken` configured in Leap Infrastructure
- No raw secrets in codebase (placeholders only)
- Runtime injection via secret manager
- Emergency kill-switch documented in RUNBOOK.md

### Authentication & Authorization
- Bearer token on all protected endpoints
- Org-scoped data isolation
- Admin-only operations enforced server-side
- Active user status validation

### PII Redaction
- Secrets redacted from logs
- PII not logged in AI queries
- Audit logs track sensitive actions

## Visual Design

### Status Color Scheme
- Available: Green (#10b981)
- Booked: Red (#ef4444)
- Maintenance: Orange (#f97316)
- Offline: Gray (#6b7280)
- Reserved: Blue (#3b82f6)

### Responsive Breakpoints
- Mobile: 375px
- Tablet: 768px
- Desktop: 1024px+

### Navigation Structure
Left sidebar with:
- Dashboard
- Conversations
- Quotes
- Bookings
- Fleet
- Leads
- Communications (legacy)
- Analytics
- Calendar
- Settings

## Testing Coverage

### Unit Tests
- `backend/quotes/calculator.test.ts`
  - Condition evaluation (gt, gte, lt, lte, eq)
  - Rule action application (discounts, surcharges)
  - Quote calculation logic

### Integration Tests
- Booking availability and conflicts (manual testing)
- File upload flow (manual testing)
- AI scope enforcement (manual testing)

## Documentation Deliverables

1. **API-DOCUMENTATION.md**
   - Complete endpoint reference
   - Request/response examples
   - Error codes and handling
   - Data models

2. **RUNBOOK.md**
   - Secret management procedures
   - Emergency AI kill-switch
   - Database operations
   - Troubleshooting guide
   - Performance monitoring
   - Backup and recovery

3. **CHANGELOG.md**
   - Version 2.0.0 release notes
   - Feature breakdown
   - Breaking changes
   - Migration notes

## No Dummy Data Policy

✅ **Fully Enforced**: All features wired to real data models, persisted records, and live API responses. No placeholder, mock, or dummy data used in implementation, staging, or tests.

## Acceptance Criteria Status

| Criterion | Status | Notes |
|-----------|--------|-------|
| Admin can create/edit Ships and Services | ✅ | Draft/Published workflow |
| Quote calc returns accurate breakdown | ✅ | With applied rules |
| Quotes persist immutable snapshots | ✅ | With publishedConfigVersion |
| Booking enforces availability | ✅ | Returns 409 on conflicts |
| Conversations map by chatId | ✅ | Multi-platform support |
| File uploads with signed URLs | ✅ | 1-hour TTL |
| Settings toggles persist | ✅ | Immediate UI updates |
| AI Assistant with rate limits | ✅ | 100 queries/user/month |
| No raw secrets in repo | ✅ | Placeholders only |
| Responsive at 375px and 768px | ✅ | Mobile-first design |
| Tests for critical paths | ✅ | Quote calc unit tests |

## Known Limitations & Future Work

### Not Implemented (As Specified)
1. **Thumbnail generation**: Placeholder in file API
2. **Multi-document AI synthesis**: Single-context only
3. **Advanced AI features**: Background jobs, scheduled analysis
4. **Actual OpenAI integration**: Simulated responses (integration ready)

### Production Readiness Checklist
- [ ] Seed initial Admin user
- [ ] Configure secrets in Leap Infrastructure
- [ ] Implement actual OpenAI API calls
- [ ] Add thumbnail generation for images
- [ ] Build user management UI (invite/revoke)
- [ ] Implement audit log viewer
- [ ] Add data export functionality
- [ ] E2E tests for critical flows
- [ ] Performance testing and optimization
- [ ] Security audit

## File Structure

```
/
├── backend/
│   ├── auth/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   ├── auth.ts
│   │   └── me.ts
│   ├── fleet/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   ├── ships.ts
│   │   └── services.ts
│   ├── quotes/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   ├── pricing_rules.ts
│   │   ├── calculator.ts
│   │   ├── calculator.test.ts
│   │   └── quotes.ts
│   ├── bookings/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   └── bookings.ts
│   ├── conversations/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   └── conversations.ts
│   ├── files/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   └── files.ts
│   ├── settings/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   └── settings.ts
│   ├── ai/
│   │   ├── encore.service.ts
│   │   └── assistant.ts
│   └── crm/
│       ├── encore.service.ts
│       ├── leads.ts
│       ├── communications.ts
│       └── migrations/
│           ├── 1_initial_schema.up.sql
│           └── 2_extended_schema.up.sql
├── frontend/
│   ├── App.tsx
│   └── components/
│       ├── Dashboard.tsx
│       ├── Sidebar.tsx
│       ├── QuotesView.tsx
│       ├── ConversationsView.tsx
│       ├── BookingsView.tsx
│       ├── FleetView.tsx
│       ├── SettingsAdminView.tsx
│       ├── AIAssistantWidget.tsx
│       └── [existing components...]
├── API-DOCUMENTATION.md
├── RUNBOOK.md
├── CHANGELOG.md
└── IMPLEMENTATION-SUMMARY.md
```

## Deployment Notes

1. **Database Migrations**: Automatically applied by Encore.ts on startup
2. **Secrets**: Must be configured in Leap Infrastructure before first use
3. **Zero Downtime**: Migrations run without service interruption
4. **Auto Deploy**: Code changes trigger automatic deployment

## Support & Maintenance

- **API Reference**: See API-DOCUMENTATION.md
- **Operations Guide**: See RUNBOOK.md
- **Emergency Procedures**: See RUNBOOK.md → Emergency AI Kill Switch
- **Troubleshooting**: See RUNBOOK.md → Troubleshooting section

## Success Metrics

- ✅ All 24 planned tasks completed
- ✅ 8 new backend services implemented
- ✅ 6 new frontend views created
- ✅ 13 new database tables with migrations
- ✅ 2 secrets configured (placeholders)
- ✅ 100% acceptance criteria met
- ✅ Zero dummy data in implementation

## Conclusion

The maritime yacht charter CRM has been successfully enhanced with a comprehensive feature set covering quote generation, booking management, unified conversations, fleet administration, file handling, organization settings, and AI assistance. All components are production-ready and follow best practices for security, scalability, and maintainability.

The system is now ready for final deployment pending:
1. Initial admin user seed
2. Secret configuration in Leap Infrastructure
3. Optional OpenAI integration activation
4. Production testing and validation
